That's a really dull selection! I'd probably (depending on my monument) very dully focus on cottages. Couple of farms and some chapels. It wouldn't be a high scoring game
I'd go monument first, then all tailor+millstone
Wow that's a low score.

I'm not an expert but I guess try to build on the outside spaces first and keep the building bunched together so you have room to put resources...
No, each tailor is worth 5 points, so that's 40 points on tailors alone.

You have to read the card for each building individually. So you go to your first tailor and that will score 1+1 for each tailor in the 4 center squares. The next tailor will also score 1+1 for each tailor in the 4 center squares, and so on. You do that 8 times so 40 points.

The rest is correct. But he counted wrong. He actually scores 47 points, not 44. I assume he forgot to count the 3 points for the Inn.
In my last game, I started building Cloisters in the four corners, added a Theather into the mix, but by then I was starting to drown in yellow cubes from my opponent, which were only present in Cottage and Farm cards, so I had no use for them.
Hi! I know this post is very old but I am hoping someone swings by and helps me out! Can you please tell me how this town scored 44pts? If the Tailor shops are 1pt each, plus and extra 1 pt for each of the four Center ones then that would be 12 pts for those plus 4 pts for the millstones. 3 pts for the Inn. Then subtract 3 for empty spaces. So 16 pts. What am I missing?
Ahhhh - I get it now! Thank you so much! I have been getting such low scores and I couldn't believe 40+! This helps me!
Thanks again
My highest score so far is 40 but I'm only 3 plays in.
Cloisters seem pretty powerful as they need 4 different resources. This leaves only wheat to deal with, so Factory makes a nice combo here.
Have you actually been in a situation where your opponent finished earlier? Yesterday my wife filled her board way before me (with cottages/wells mainly), allowing me to call cubes for 4 new taverns I put on my board on 4 out of 5 remaining spaces in difficult places (would be impossible if she was still in the game). My score was 3x hers.
Build cottages, farms and taverns. Only build wells when absolutely required to do so. Build cottages from the corners in, farms in the center.
Sounds like a group-think problem to me.
If all the players are playing a winning strategy, I don't think it should be called a group-think problem. After all, the primary goal is to win, not to try different strategies for the pleasure of trying things out.
You know it is 4 cottages per Farm, right?

And why doesn’t another player hate draft against the others going blue/white/red for chapels and taverns?
Bank requires two yellows to build (and three other resources). Cloisters use every resource except yellow, so when you are doing a mass Cloister strategy you tend to have extra yellow you don't want. A bank would also work well in a Cloister strategy since you can just make the color you can't call be yellow, which you would never call anyway while building Cloisters, so it wouldn't even be a handicap.
Thanks.Understand now.!
And it drives me crazy that the developer doesn't call the resources by name. Instead he says blue, red, yellow, etc.
Show Me How To Win has a short interview with the developer giving some good strategy tips!

https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=bSHBNuiiWdE
Cottages are very small, easy to build...
Lots of good advice here already, but I'll add some tips:

* Building in the center squares early is very risky and should only be done if you have a plan to construct around that building quickly.

* Whether you build from the corners or start from one edge, always try to keep your empty squares in one group. As soon as you break your empty squares into two groups, you are (usually) guaranteed two empty spaces and will be much more limited in what you can build.

* Try to choose a main strategy before the game begins, and make sure it involves all five resources (or has a way to handle awkward resources).

* Avoid placing a resource without having a plan for it. Usually when I see players place a resource and say "I'll figure that out later" they don't.

* I personally don't usually plan overlapping layouts. I work on around two buildings at a time, hopefully requiring different resources.

* In Solo mode, be aware of what card orders you are setting yourself up for on your next run through the deck. Choosing a tricky resource like glass several times in a row will come back to bite you.

* In Town Hall mode, I try to use my choice to take a resource that wouldn't hurt me if it came up again in the deck shortly afterwards.

Hope this helps!
That cuts both ways. If you call those cubes and nobody else has any use in mind for them, how are they going to get rid of them?
If you keep building Cottage, Well, Cottage, Well over and over, you'll have filled your board in around 40 turns. If you instead build a mixture of larger stuff, you could potentially last twice as long.
Just topped by best with 48. Man I love this game. Still my go to solo - on vacation or when I wake up early enough to see sunrise is to get a quick game in.


Again was a cloister and fountain game, but much more varied strategy this time and less about building a cycle of cards. Fun one (got some lucky draws.
Oh very interesting. Can you elaborate on that? You’re saying still have 4 cubes, but only 2/3 different kinds?
Billy - I feel your pain! I just broke out my shiny, new copy of Tiny Towns only to learn that I am a woefully poor city planner.

*sigh*

I applied my troubleshooting skills to my problem (change only one thing at a time) and tackled the issue from this direction:
- Multiple replays
- Same building choices
- Keep the same strategy
- Change only the order of Resource Cards (Town Hall/Solo) i.e. shuffle them

This is what I've learned so far that has helped me:
1. Build from the corners toward the center
2. Build larger buildings early
3. Set up overlapping potential builds (as you mentioned)
4. Don't let the resource cards "clump" together
5. A non-scoring two-stone building is better than a -1 empty space

This is definitely a lesson of simple does not equal easy. I need to get some decent building techniques down before my daughter and her boyfriend shame me.

>;^)

I do see that the dynamics will change if play moves away from the Town Hall style to players each choosing the building materials, so there's that...
Sorry it's feeling same-y to you, Katia.

Cottage strategies require quite a lot of buildings to exceed 3VP per building. If you built 1 Farm, 4 Cottages, and 3 Wells, you could score a max of 12VP for the Cottages and 8VP for the Wells for a total of 20VP across 8 buildings for 2.5VP per building.

Meanwhile, if one player managed to make 3 Tailors in the center of their board, they would score 12VP for an average of 4VP per building. And if they pull off 4 Tailors, that's 20 points for only 4 buildings--twice as efficient.

It's true that the other buildings take more resources and effort, but a building that gobbles up more resources is a good thing--the bigger buildings you make, the longer you will be in the game.

My recommendation is to try going for another strategy like Tailors, Markets, Cloisters, or Almshouses, all of which can be very lucrative. You will earn more VP per building than a straight Cottage strategy, and other players will be forced to cope with a lot of stone and wood that they will have to turn into low scoring Wells, Fountains, etc. I don't recommend this just to "try a different strategy for variety"--in my experience, this really can earn you more VP than the other players, especially if they are only going for Cottages and Wells.

If a group prefers one strategy, then their boards (and games) will be similar and it will become a matter of who can best execute that strategy. But one player going for something different can earn that player plenty of VP while hindering the strategy of the other players.

I hope this freshens the game up a bit for you and your group!
we are regularly getting scores int he 30s now.

So my number one piece of advice would be don't try and do everything at once.

start by looking at the cards and work out your points strategy. pick one or two of the buildings and set yourself up with those. don't try and build everything all at once, or put a cube here for later etc...

just build those 2 or 3 things you started planning.

Look at the shapes of the buildings that ARE NOT in your planned starting strategy and plan gaps to build them later. So say you want a couple of long thin ones, then don't cut off all the sides or else you will be stuck. more square ones then leave those gaps.

that's about it. getting an early black building (eg factory) is always good as that's your safety net for cubes.
The thing is, most other buildings have the potential to score more than cottages do. The trick is to realise that potential.
It’s not always good, but in some setups it works well. it especially works well in town hall mode since you can count on all of the resources being called. I really like building them in cloister games since I won’t want yellows but I can burn two called yellows into it.
Unless I'm missing something, this argument doesn't hold water. What do you profit from "lasting longer", if the scoring is always calculated at the end and is a direct function of buildings on your board at the end (and not other actions done during the game)? If you can build your whole board efficiently, it will be reflected in your final score. Sure, if you become the last player, you can call the last cubes for yourself, but if other players managed to fill their board efficiently before that, it doesn't help you in any way.
If one does hate drafts, not sure it would be enough if all the other players are still "allying" themselves to build cottages.
My first question would be, how are you feeding those cottages to ensure that they score points?
I think you're touching upon a strategic point that hasn't really been mentioned. I've only played 6 or so games, but the one thing I feel you always need at the start of a game is a strategy for "what do I do with cubes of each color". If your strategy of building 3 types of buildings has no yellow cubes in it, then you're likely going to fail. And if the setup has yellow cubes in only two buildings, you probably need to include them in your strategy.
I was about to start a new thread on a similar subject and just found this one. I have similar issues as the OP, I keep trying to build different buildings but in the end I keep getting beaten by cottages. I understand what you're saying, other buildings potentially get you more points, but I haven't found a way yet to make it work in practice. Cottages are very small, easy to build, are still worth a lot of points, and most importantly give you great flexibility with their three different colors of cubes. Other buildings potentially give you more points, it's true, but most often you must build a lot of them to make it work, and if you're the only one building them it will be hard and ultimately unlikely to succeed, since you're the only one calling for those cubes. In my last game, I started building Cloisters in the four corners, added a Theather into the mix, but by then I was starting to drown in yellow cubes from my opponent, which were only present in Cottage and Farm cards, so I had no use for them. By building cottages, you get a very reasonable 3 points AND you hinder your opponents by feeding them cubes they can't place if they're not also building cottages, usually yellow or red. This advantage must also be taken into consideration. Other buildings potentially give you more points, but only if you specialize and build a lot of them, which you're never going to achieve if you're alone going for that strategy. You will bust from an avalanche of blue, red or yellow cubes before succeeding. I would like to go for another strategy, but that's the only thing I can build with those cubes.
That said, I still really like the game, I would simply appreciate getting that annoyance out of my mind. Should I just keep trying, and the problem will be resolved as I get better with the strategy? Should I try playing with a new group to get out of the "cottage meta"?
Use the card deck, it makes for nice strategic decisions and you can at least predict the probability of what cubes will be coming up. I tried the calling out version but dont like it. So many times its red, yellow, blue.. red, yellow, blue especially since were not the kind of players to deliberately screw each other left and right.
If you play well, you still lots of space before he cottage playerz. "get gud"
I have played this game at least a dozen times now solo. With the standard solo rules as well as the town hall variant. And my score has ranged from -7 to 4.

I try to look for overlapping patterns to maximize my options, but I end up just...tanking.

Any recommendations? What do you do to not be terrible?
I favor buildings that take more cubes and strongly avoid the 2-cube buildings until the end. My goal is to be one of the last players out. If you're the last player, you can often have only one empty space at the end. I often start with ~2 5-6 cube buildings, then continue with a mix of 3/4 cube buildings. I would prefer to stick with 4s, but the 4s usually score based on your 3s and don't use enough different types of cubes, by themselves.

Also, pay attention to others' strategies. If someone else is going for inns (2 red cubes and one other), you had better be able to do something with red cubes.
I’m still new to the game but I found this arrangement WAY harder than others. I haven’t broken 20 points on it. What can you get?
For 4 points, it doesn’t seem worth it to build this building, which will gimp you for the rest of the game. Since it is a large building (5 resources required), conventional wisdom suggests that it should be built early, which makes this building even more undesirable UNLESS it is used as part of another strategy (e.g. theatre).

There are many other structures that will provide 4 points and does not have a negative side effect. I just don’t see who would ever use this.
I just got 50 pts! had been close a few times before but had a bit of luck this time
Just topped by best with 48. Man I love this game. Still my go to solo - on vacation or when I wake up early enough to see sunrise is to get a quick game in.


Again was a cloister and fountain game, but much more varied strategy this time and less about building a cycle of cards. Fun one (got some lucky draws). I don’t think I ever used the factory solo but here it was clear that wheat would be a big problem.
Got the game yesterday, played solo once. I was surprised I got the decent, middle of road score of 22.
I was just about to post exactly the same question.Beat me to it.
After 3rd play we realized we are only building cottages and occasionally Monuments combining with some green and grey buildings to utilize stone and wood. We literally never use other types of buildings as it seems less rewarding (takes more resources and effort to build for less points). Every time we push ourselves to use a different strategy and use other buildings we get lower score.
20 plays after we still didn’ figure out why would we use other buildings at all. Needless to say it makes the game a lot more shallow and samey. And it’s such a shame since we like the look and feel of the game a lot!
What do we miss here?
I agree. I’m at 6 plays now and I’m barely now starting to see the many different approaches. The first couple of games I thought like OP, but as I’ve played I’ve noticed more and more intricacies, and that’s only playing with the same set of buildings, I haven’t even tapped into the different combinations available yet.

No, there’s much more to this game. Keep digging.
We either add Red building or use Grand Mausoleum of Rodina (if lucky to draft it).
So our final boards normally look like these:
1. As many Cottages as possible, one Red, Greys, optional Greens, optional Monument
2. As many Cottages as possible, Grand Mausoleum of Rodina, optional Greens.

And since most players go for the same types of buildings, we don’t struggle with utilising odd materials. And our final boards look very similar.
I will add...

It's probably OK to ignore some of the building choices. Last game I played, I focused on Oranges and ignored Greens. Both scored only off their own color so trying to do both at once seemed to me a bad strategy. IIRC, one was Cloisters and the other Taverns.
The other red buildings can feed more than 4 cottages though
Is this solo? Build some factories to make red and brown wild. Then pump out tailors. Fill in the leftover spaces with millstones

Edit: yup, just did a quick solo 44pts. Unfortunately couldnt get another millstone in the bottom corner.
Against strong opponents, this is a weakness.

Remember that it's an advantage to keep going as long as possible: once other players have folded, you get greater control over the building materials available.

If you keep building Cottage, Well, Cottage, Well over and over, you'll have filled your board in around 40 turns. If you instead build a mixture of larger stuff, you could potentially last twice as long.
Yeah.. it should be worth more points
After 200 or so plays I can say that I think cottage and gray strategies are overall pretty weak. I suggest the same things the designer said. But I will also add that Town Hall mode prevents a lot of group think since the cards are random.
In most of my games cottages have been the go-to strategy as well. It's especially bad when the red building is the granary, which feeds cottages in the 8 squares surrounding it. This makes a cottage strategy quite easy (and dull). As noted above, cottages are good value for their size and tend to pay out more reliably than other buildings (even a cloister strategy is riskier).

I've also noticed that yellow buildings generally seem to be quite weak, with their bigger footprints and dodgier scoring conditions.
1 Factory-Wood
2-Farms
6-7 cottages
4-5 chapels

I think the Tailor strategy with the 2 factories is also strong. Especially since the millstones become way easier to score.
if you're the only one building them it will be hard and ultimately unlikely to succeed, since you're the only one calling for those cubes
I play solo once in a while if I get up early and fam is still asleep. Either way, just played a very bizarre game


Was able to build grove university quickly and put out a wheat factory. Started building cloisters, paying each resource indiviusalply. Eventually the deck just became a cycling of the 4 resources I needed for cloisters so was able to build 10 of them for 40 pts. Luckily had fountain and had to settle for two of those plus one tavern at the end. Total score of 47 - doubt I’ll ever top that.

What’s others best solo game scores?
But if you’ve filled your board with your intended buildings, you don’t need cubes anymore.
52, I think, but I am the developer of the game and I specifically tried to have the best setup. I know Peter and I wish we made Cloister a 2 or 3 resource building.
Sorry Josh,must be thick but I don’t understand”burn two yellows into it”?
THIS. So much this. Some board game players have this tendency of deliberately "trying various things" and this impacts their view of the game. If the game collapses when played to win, then something's terribly wrong. That's not to say that Tiny Towns is (I haven't played it that much), but I just wanted to support the quoted view.
I've done it solo twice. 25 was my best.
I’ll keep that in mind next time I play. But last time I tried to go with the big buildings I ended up stuck with the cubes from my opponents cottages, and I ended up finishing way before my opponent instead of after her, and with -5 on top of it all because of those unused cubes. This probably has more to do with my poor planning than with the balance of the game, but do you see my point?
Bigger footprint = better.
At the beginning of the game, analyze the buildings available and make a concrete plan for what you want to do. A key part of this plan is to make sure that what you plan to build includes a range of colors - leave out a couple of colors from your plan and you'll be screwed when people keep calling them. And be flexible if people go heavily into colors outside your plan - if people keep calling red because they're building taverns, then you build a couple taverns too.

Other tips:

- build your biggest, most complex buildings first

- take advantage of things like factories to increase your flexibility

- build on the outside first - don't build in the center until late in the game if possible
I've played solo thee times. It's a pretty fun little puzzle.

As far as high scores go, there are a lot of variables. Obviously the buildings you play with make a huge impact on your ability to score big. My highest score is 47. Best as I can remember. I had 1 greenhouse + 12 cottages + the special building that functions as two cottages and 5 points + 1 wood factory +1 Wood factory + 1 shed + one empty space.
The profit?? If your last you choose all cubes!
Buf!, I see great numbers over here... My best score is only 27, and I was proud of it till now...
34 points for myself so far.

47 points is a rocking score!!

I felt the same way after my first play of At The Gates Of Loyang. 17 points right out of the gate which seems to be respectable. I figured I won't hit that again.
Yes, sure...
This is already in the video section of this game since March, 12.
Just play an other game.
Best solution.
